Skip to main content
The Christian Century
Marketing/Header Menu
   Free Newsletters Donate Renew Subscribe
SCREEN TIME
How universal is the Force?

The Rise of Skywalker reduces a powerful theological symbol to a family drama.
by Kathryn Reklis in the January 29, 2020 issueSHAREShare on TwitterShare on FacebookEmail to a friendPrint

Disney
In the ninth installment of the Star Wars saga, The Rise of Skywalker, Rey, the most recent hero, and Kylo Ren, who is both Rey’s nemesis and soul mate, transfer lightsabers in a crucial battle. Many small moments throughout the film have paved the way, materially and spiritually, for this sleight of hand, and when it happens it is both obvious and breathtaking. It is an exhilarating vision of what could have been in an alternate universe. For a moment, we see that this moment of alliance is not the result of bloodlines and superior genetics, or of there being born heroes and born villains, but the product of subtle, free human choices. For a moment, the film appears to see beyond the tired tropes and family dramas it has so relentlessly pursued. The moment doesn’t last.

The Rise of Skywalker picks up where The Last Jedi left off: Kylo Ren, son of Leia and Han Solo, nephew of Luke Skywalker, and grandson of Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vader, has killed his way to the position of Supreme Leader of the imperial First Order. Rey, who shares a mysterious bond with Kylo that allows them to communicate across time and space, is trying to complete her Jedi training and race Kylo to the hidden planet of the Sith.

As in all Star Wars movies, a small band of poorly resourced resistance fighters tries to defeat the imperial power against crushing odds and threats of impossible weapons. As Rey and her comrades zip across the galaxy, they meet new allies and many, many old characters, who show up for final goodbyes. They outwit foes, attempt daring rescues, and face near-certain destruction with witty dialogue and sincere camaraderie. They are a compelling band of friends with whom to face the end of the world. But the real focus of the movie is the relationship between Rey and Kylo.

This article is available to Christian Century magazine subscribers only. To keep reading, subscribe—subscriptions begin at $4.95—or log in. Thank you for supporting our publishing ministry.

Enter your email address
We would love to hear from you. Let us know what you think about this article by emailing our editors.

Most Recent
Religion that harms

by Morganne Talley
Bearing witness to multiple stories

A clear view

by Peter W. Marty
November 12, Ordinary 32A (Matthew 25:1–13)

by Dorothy Sanders Wells
 
Get the Editors’ Picks newsletter with the latest from the Christian Century. Every Tuesday.

Email address
Sign up >
Most Popular

FEATURES
Signs of Mary Magdalene in John 11

“If John’s christological confessor is also the first person the risen Jesus appears to,” says biblical scholar Elizabeth Schrader Polczer, “that could make her a competitor to Peter’s authority.”
by Amy Frykholm

NEWS
The religious aspect of the Israel-Palestine conflict

In mid-May, violence between Gaza and Israel intensified to levels not seen for years, with Hamas shooting hundreds of rockets toward the Tel Aviv area and Israel retaliating with heavy strikes in ...
by Yonat Shimron


VOICES
Give to the one who asks of you

I’m on this man’s side, even though I didn’t give him any money. Right?
by Isaac S. Villegas
BOOKS
Fake news at church

Three new books investigate how misinformation shapes evangelicals—and propose better ways to reason together.
by Stephen Healey
The Christian Century
Since 1900, the Christian Century has published reporting, commentary, poetry, and essays on the role of faith in a pluralistic society.


Twitter icon Facebook icon

© 2023 The Christian Century. All rights reserved.

Contact Us  
Privacy Policy

Mega-menu
Topics
Politics & Society
Arts & Culture
Church
Scripture
Theology
Life of Faith
Departments
Lectionary
Podcasts
News
Poetry
Books
Voices
Features
First Words
From the Editors
Screen Time
On Art
Magazine
Current Issue
Back Issues
Latest Articles
Classified ads
Gift Subscriptions
Bulk Subscriptions
Address Changes
Customer Service
Info
About Us
Mission
Staff
Advertising
Submissions
Rights & Permissions
Connect
Subscribe
Renew
Donate
Free Newsletters
Letters to the Editor
Subscriber Login