
Apple MacBook Pro 16 (M3, Late 2023) Review
AI Mattress Advice, Reviewed
Black Friday 2023
6 Best TV Gifts
Tesla Chargers for EVs
Google Maps Immersive View
Renewable Energy Certificates
Tech
Money
Home
Wellness
Energy
Home Internet
Deals & Reviews
Price Finder
Tech
Home Entertainment
Mobile
Computing
Services & Software
Gaming
Money
Credit Cards
Mortgages
Insurance
Loans
Cryptocurrency
Banking
Investing
Taxes
Home
Home Internet
Home Security
Kitchen & Household
Smart Home
Energy & Utilities
Yard & Outdoors
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
Parenting
Medical
Mental Health
News & Culture
Politics
Social Media
Privacy
Misinformation
Culture
Internet Culture
Entertainment
Sports
Videos
Science
Climate
Space
Biology
Deals & Reviews
Reviews
Best Products
Versus
Gift Guide
Shopping Extension
Cars
Best Cars
Car Accessories
Car Reviews
Car News
Car Prices
Coupons
Vistaprint Coupons
StubHub Discount Codes
H&M Coupons
ExpressVPN Coupons
Home Depot Coupons
Office Depot Coupons
Ashley Furniture Coupons
Samsung Promo Codes
NordVPN Coupons
Surfshark Coupons
Shutterfly Promo Codes
Zenni Optical Promo Codes
Hotels.com Coupons
Walmart Promo Codes
Booking.com Promo Codes
Hotwire Promo Codes
Culture
Star Wars has lost its mystique, and The Rise of Skywalker is to blame
Commentary: It's May the 4th, but Star Wars has never been less interesting.

markserrels
markserrels
Mark Serrels
Editorial Director
Mark Serrels is an award-winning Senior Editorial Director focused on all things culture. He covers TV, movies, anime, video games and whatever weird things are happening on the internet. He especially likes to write about the hardships of being a parent in the age of memes, Minecraft and Fortnite. Definitely don't follow him on Twitter.
See full bio
Mark Serrels
May 3, 2021 5:00 p.m. PT
4 min read

ep9-ff-001865
The Rise of Skywalker was a crowd pleaser for the worst possible crowd.
Walt Disney Pictures
Today is May 4th. Yep, that day. Star Wars day. May the 4th be with you, etc. A pun that, thanks to the internet, somehow transformed a regular day into a global holiday of Star Wars worship. But there's only one problem: I don't really want to worship at that altar any more. 

And The Rise of Skywalker is to blame.

It's embarrassing, but there was a point in the pre-pandemic days -- during my first watch of The Rise of Skywalker -- where, in a packed theater, I audibly said "what the hell?" 
I can't remember exactly which part. There were a few candidates.

It could have been right at the beginning, when Rose Tico (played by Kelly Marie Tran) was yanked from The Rise of Skywalker like Poochie from The Simpsons. A move that felt designed to placate the racist trolls who'd bullied Tran off social media in 2018. 

That sucked. Big time. Definitely worth a "what the hell?"

It could have been the moment they "unkilled" Chewbacca, rewinding perhaps the only challenging moment in a first act that felt like it was written and edited by a 5-year-old high on sherbet. 

11-star-wars-the-last-jedi-t8zl52
What the hell?
Disney
But if I had to place bets, I'd say my "what the hell" moment came during the big "Rey's origins" reveal. 

Undoing one of The Last Jedi's most interesting choices, Kylo Ren tells Rey she wasn't the daughter of drunkards who sold her off for booze money. Nah, scratch that. In a desperate attempt to tie everything back to the original trilogy (making the Star Wars universe feel smaller than a snow globe), Rey was revealed to be the granddaughter of Emperor Palpatine: The big baddie who magically re-appeared in the third movie, minus any foreshadowing in the previous two.  

"What the hell?"

Years later, distanced from the warped bubble of Star Wars "discourse" -- and its place in the culture wars that consume all light and reason -- it's still difficult to explain why this choice annoyed me so much. 

In hindsight Rey's reveal was the moment when Star Wars stopped existing as an object I could believe in and transformed into banal fan fiction catering to the worst type of fan. When Star Wars shrank into a story in a Reddit thread far, far away. Designed to offend the least amount of people possible, built for people to sit in movie theatres and point. "LOOK, IT'S LANDO. LANDO'S HERE!"

I was pissed. 

Pity my poor wife, eyes glazing over, who had to endure the train journey home. Me, arms waving like a madman, trying to explain why the passable sci-fi flick she'd just watched (and immediately began forgetting, like a normal adult) was a betrayal. That it deliberately and systematically unraveled every attempt made by The Last Jedi to reinvent Star Wars and have it successfully escape the dull nostalgia pit it's now fully descended into.

I stand by the assessment. The Last Jedi was a movie that demanded we "let the past die." It railed against casual nostalgia. Entire sections, like the casino scene on Canto Bight, were far from perfect, but The Last Jedi was bold and inventive. It never invited us to point, "LOOK, LANDO'S HERE!" Instead, it did a fantastic job of shredding all fan expectations. It murdered its main villain halfway through the run time; transformed Luke Skywalker from a dull do-the-right-thing hero-type into a vicious, bitter hermit tortured by his own failings. 

Every Star Wars Movie, Ranked
starwarsrogueone-landingpage.jpg
starwarsclonewars.jpg
starwarsclonewars-2.jpg
+22 more
See all photos 
It was a film that paid testament to the weird imagination of the original trilogy, but refused to pander to the most basic tenets of its mythology. A vocal minority hated it, but for my money it was one of the bravest blockbuster movies of the last decade. It made me care about Star Wars again.

But my biggest sin was caring in the first place. 

In a post-Gamergate age, intense fandom has poisoned the well. The only response: Treat franchises like Star Wars and Marvel with indifference. If they rise above, like Into The Spider-Verse or Thor: Ragnarok? Great. If they don't? Ah well, it's just a movie. Taking it seriously is a losing game. 

I made the crucial mistake that renders all fandom toxic: I was invested. As a teenager I devoured the Star Wars expanded universe. The good, the bad and The Courtship of Princess Leia. I was painfully in love with Star Wars as both a series and an idea. As an adult I had a huge amount of respect for the universe and the incredible movies it helped produce but now, post-Rise of Skywalker, I reckon I need a break from Star Wars. A long break. 

May the Fourth be with you. Sure. I'd rather ignore it. It's a hashtag I'll be muting into oblivion. Because in a day that's supposed to be a celebration, there's not much to celebrate. 

That's enough Star Wars for me, thanks.


Make These Geeky Treats to Celebrate Star Wars
Mando Ice Cream Sandos
Chocolate Chewbacca candy bar
BB-8 Cake
+18 more
See all photos 
More From CNET
Deals
Reviews
Best Products
Gift Guide
Shopping Extension
Videos
Software Downloads
About
About CNET
Newsletters
Sitemap
Careers
Policies
Cookie Settings
Help Center
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2023 CNET, a Red Ventures company. All rights reserved.
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea