 
Houston Press
SUPPORT US
 
POP CULTURE

Reviews For The Easily Distracted:
Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker
PETE VONDER HAAR DECEMBER 19, 2019 5:00AM


Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures
Title: Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker

Describe This Move Using One Watchmen Quote:

LAURIE BLAKE: You’re not supposed to take someone else’s Nostalgia.
Brief Plot Synopsis: Guess who's back. Back again. Sheevy's back. Tell a friend.

Rating Using Random Objects Relevant To The Film: 2.5 Chef Gormaandas out of 5.


20th Television
Tagline: "The Saga Concludes."

Better Tagline: "We waited nine movies for this?"

Not So Brief Plot Synopsis: Resistance is useless. Or that's how it seems to the remainders of the Resistance, led by General Leia Organa (Carrie Fisher) and her second-in-command Poe Dameron (Oscar Isaac). Their battles against the First Order have taken on a new urgency with the apparent reappearance of Emperor Palpatine, spurring new Supreme Leader Kylo Ren (Adam Driver) and ascendant Jedi Rey (Daisy Ridley) to greater urgency.




"Critical" Analysis: Looks like we can include J.J. Abrams among those who weren't fond of The Last Jedi.

There were always rumblings to this effect. Abrams set certain expectations about young Rey's lineage and the eventual role of Jedi legend Luke Skywalker in The Force Awakens, only to have Rian Johnson throw a giant alien teat into the works. Reaction to these narrative choices were, to put it charitably, divisive among Star Wars fans, and hosed presumptive director Colin Treverrow's plans for Episode IX so thoroughly that he dropped out.

And instead of thanking Johnson for ridding us of Treverrow, fans complained about Johnson.

For those incensed at the directions taken in TLJ, your whiny asses are in luck: Abrams has course-corrected the story in Rise of Skywalker to the point many of the events of the last movie may seem like a fever dream (Kylo Ren reassures Rey her parents did matter) when not dismissed out of hand (the so-called "Holdo Maneuver" is more or less laughd off).

Instead, Abrams chucks us immediately into the return of Emperor Palpatine (it's in the opening crawl, calm down) and Rey and Kylo's attempts to discover the secret planet where the Sith lord is assembling an armada (the "Final Order," [evil laugh]) to establish dominion over the galaxy. For serious this time.

Along for the ride are Poe, Finn (John Boyega), Chewbacca, and faithful droids R2-D2 and C-3PO. In other words, everybody from the last movie except Rose Tico (Kelly Marie Tran), who was evidently so polarizing she spends most of the movie back at the Resistance base analyzing star destroyer schematics or some shit.

Otherwise, everything old is new again. Besides Palpatine, there's another Scooby-Doo run through an Imperial (sorry, First Order) vessel, another(!) "cantina" scene, and a return to not one, but two planets from the original trilogy. At the same time, Abrams has apparently decided the last movie in a series is a good time to reinvent fundamentally accepted principles of how the Force operates.

But don't worry. The ability of spaceships to start up instantly after decades of exposure to the elements remains consistent in a galaxy far, far away.

It isn't so much that Rise of Skywalker isn't good. There will be plenty here to appease fans, and there's even some sops thrown to the chldren ("they're kids movies" being the go-to defense against any criticism of the Saga). But it's unchallenging. Cinematic comfort food. There are some interesting moments, the lightsaber duels continue to get better with every movie, and it's admittedly gratifying to see Kylo Ren assume the role of the saga's John McLane; getting the ever-loving shit beat out of him for 2.5 hours.

But it's hard to believe, at the culmination of 42 years and nine movies in this series, that the last three would be essentially improvisational exercises by all directors concerned. Abrams and Johnson couldn't sit down with a PowerPoint presentation and maintain some common threads? Say what you want about the prequels, they may have been bad, but they were consistently so.

To step out of the third-person for a second ... I grew up with this franchise. My mom got me out of school early one day in second grade to take me to see Star Wars in 1977, two of a dozen or so people in the theater (when we left, the line was three blocks long). I stood in line for Empire and Return of the Jedi (second to last day of 8th grade for that one). I've lost or given away more action figures and playsets than you can ever know.

All this is to say it's time for some non-Skywalker stories. Maybe the reason more kids aren't into these flicks is how much they leverage 40-year old memories. Because as visceral a thrill watching a Sith battle a Jedi, or an unexpected Dark Side moment (you'll know it when you see it), I know when I'm being manipulated. At least The Last Jedi didn't always play it safe.

And from what we've seen of Disney's plans for the Star Wars Universe, safe is about all we can count on from now on.
KEEP THE HOUSTON PRESS FREE... Since we started the Houston Press, it has been defined as the free, independent voice of Houston, and we'd like to keep it that way. With local media under siege, it's more important than ever for us to rally support behind funding our local journalism. You can help by participating in our "I Support" program, allowing us to keep offering readers access to our incisive coverage of local news, food and culture with no paywalls.
Make a one-time donation today for as little as $1.

PETER VONDER HAAR writes movie reviews for the Houston Press and the occasional book. The first three novels in the "Clarke & Clarke Mysteries" - Lucky Town, Point Blank, and Empty Sky - are out now.
CONTACT: Pete Vonder Haar
FOLLOW:
Twitter: @PeterVonderHaar
TRENDING ARTS & CULTURE
Right or Left, What the Constitution Means to Me at Main Street Speaks to You
Sweeney Todd at TUTS Shines With Inspired Direction and Choreography
Intelligence at HGO Buoyed By Wonderous Voices

DON'T MISS OUT
SIGN UP for the latest arts & culture news, free stuff and more!
JOIN TODAY
AROUND THE WEB
Sponsored
This Weird Method Can Restore Your Vision Naturally (Watch)
This Weird Method Can Restore Your Vision Naturally (Watch)
Healthier Living Tips
Doctor Discovers Natural Remedy for Constant Ear Ringing (Watch)
Doctor Discovers Natural Remedy for Constant Ear Ringing (Watch)
Healthier Living Tips
Neuropathy & Nerve Damage? Do This Immediately (Watch)
Neuropathy & Nerve Damage? Do This Immediately (Watch)
Healthier Living Tips
Cost of Full Mouth Dental Implant in Singapore Might Surprise You!
Cost of Full Mouth Dental Implant in Singapore Might Surprise You!
Dental Impants | Search Ads
Singapore Mattress Stores Could Offer Surprising Discounts (Take Note)
Singapore Mattress Stores Could Offer Surprising Discounts (Take Note)
Mattress Deals | Search Ads
Singapore: Unsold Prefabricated Homes Are Almost Given Away
Singapore: Unsold Prefabricated Homes Are Almost Given Away
Homes | Search Ads
Looking for an Efficient Accounting Solution? Explore the Best Software Options!
Looking for an Efficient Accounting Solution? Explore the Best Software Options!
Software | Search Ads
Unsold Laptops in Singapore Could Be Distributed Almost for Nothing
Unsold Laptops in Singapore Could Be Distributed Almost for Nothing
Laptops | Search Ads
Dinner: 10 Foods You Should Never Eat in the Evening
Dinner: 10 Foods You Should Never Eat in the Evening
Health Natural
COMEDY

Impractical Joker Joe Gatto Trades Stunts for Storytelling in New Solo Show
VIC SHUTTEE NOVEMBER 7, 2023 6:40AM

Joe Gatto may have left Impractical Jokers, but he's still got a few aces up is sleeve
Joe Gatto may have left Impractical Jokers, but he's still got a few aces up is sleeve Photo by Jonathan Thorpe
Almost two years ago, devotees of the long-running TruTv hit Impractical Jokers were bummed to see that after 9 successful seasons, fan favorite Joe Gatto was leaving the program.


But fans who have sorely missed Gatto’s fearless wit are in luck, as the New York native is hitting the road with a night of storytelling – and hitting Houston solo for the very first time.


Without his Joker buddies to mess with him, what can audiences expect from this all new Joe Gatto experience? “It’s funny, let’s start there,” the comic says in his patented speedy deadpan. “People are wondering: are they going to laugh? Guaranteed. 3-5 laughs, in your pocket. My show is authentic. If you watched me on TV, you got to see Joe on Impractical Jokers and you get to see more of that person you got to know and fall in love with on TV. I wasn’t playing a character on there. It was just me as myself.

"The format of my show is a lot of stories. I’m a storyteller, so I am up there telling stories of my friendship with the guys, on and off screen. Stories about growing up with a crazy Italian mother. About being a parent to my two amazing kids, and all the silliness that happens with them and how I’m basically messing that up everyday. Stories about living in a house filled with lovely and rambunctious rescue dogs, as I continue on my path of trying to save them all.”


Gatto says writing material is a bit different when plucking anecdotes from real life. “My format really is like storytelling with perspective, so I’ll always add a little bit of what I’m thinking in there. And that has been a big thing for me, so now as I am developing this hour – and I’ve been doing this hour for about 16 months now. So as I start thinking about my next hour, and I’m thinking about what other stories I can tell and even start to tell a few here and there to see if they have legs to them. So I think the picking of what material and what to talk about that is the interesting part.”




Talking about the transformative nature of being part of an ensemble that went mainstream all at once, Gatto seems appreciative all these years later. “I would say mostly it was night and day,” he says, reflecting on the break-through success the group after hitting the airwaves in 2011. “I went from a comic in New York hanging with my friends and I was basically doing it as a hobby. I had a day job when we got picked up with the Impractical Jokers, I was selling baby furniture here in New York. A complete 180. Then it was a 1 in a million chance to get picked up for that pilot, then another 1 in a million chance for it go to series, then a 1 in a trillion chance for it be go on running for more than ten years. It’s insane.”


“The biggest thing for me became being a source of laughter. In the beginning, it was cool, you know? But soon you realize that you have become a part of people’s lives. How you help effect families. I remember growing up watching TV with my Dad, and we used to watch Home Improvement with Tim Allen. Tim Allen was like the first stand up special that I saw. So to see that, to be that to people – it’s not lost on me. That’s a really cool thing for me. It’s unbelievable. And to get to do it with your best friends too, that’s gotta be a 1 in a gazillion shot! That’s impossible, it just does not happen.”


Gatto is also happy to report his current relationship with his former comedy partners, Murr, Sal and Q. “Hate them! Don’t talk anymore. Screw those guys,” he says straight. Then, with a big laugh. “No, we’re bitter rivals that hang out and talk all the time. We’re just not friends from work anymore. That’s the easier way to understand it. We were friends 20 years before we got on TV, and we’ve been friends for almost 35 years at this point and it’s all been great."




The comic is also pleased to highlight a few of the side projects he has been able to pursue now that his schedule is not as monopolized by filming full time. “Two Cool Moms [is a podcast] I host with my very good friend Steve Bryne, a very funny comedian friend of mine,” Gatto says. “We have known each other for a while and so when my schedule opened up and I was figuring out my new route, I knew I wanted to do something creatively together. We found a format pretty quickly because Steve and I are each other’s confidants. We both like to think we give each other pretty good advice, and we like to think we both had pretty cool mothers who gave good motherly advice, so that’s why our thing is called Two Cool Moms. It’s an homage to our mothers.”


“Steve and I spend the first half of the show, you know we’re comedians, so we’re talking about anything and everything: the road, life, growing up, being a parent and whatnot. And the second half of it, we take fan submitted dilemmas and we solve those the best we can. Sometimes it is good, sometimes it is not, but it's always fun.”




Offering advice, both good and bath, comes with a lot of responsibly for a performer with such a wide following like Gatto. “It’s not lost on me,” he says about the notion of being a mentor. “I really enjoy being that. I grew up with a bunch of different mentors in a bunch of different places, which is an interesting way to go. Once you become a father, you instantly get a dose of reality about your own mortality. What are we doing here? It makes you think about what wisdom do you want to impact to these kids who will be carrying on my legacy. I get asked a lot because I’ve had a very fortunate life where I have worked hard and it has been panned out for me, so its really cool to be asked by people who respect you and the work you have put in and I always try to give a little back and be kind about it.”


Parenthood is front-and-center for the 47-year-old father of two. But he says, being a dad is not only rewarding, but it is helping him creatively as well. “I just did a second book, a kids book, based on a story with my son,” he explains, teasing an upcoming project which will be published by Penguin in the coming year. “My son loves what I do, he calls it ‘talking to the people.’ He came home from school the other day, and said he had a joke that I would want to tell to the people. It’s great, it’s a lot of fun.”

Gatto’s Performance is scheduled for 7 p.m. on Sunday,  November 12 at 4300 University. For more information, call 832-842-3131 or visit uh.edu/cullen-performance-hall/. $49.75-99.75.

KEEP THE HOUSTON PRESS FREE... Since we started the Houston Press, it has been defined as the free, independent voice of Houston, and we'd like to keep it that way. With local media under siege, it's more important than ever for us to rally support behind funding our local journalism. You can help by participating in our "I Support" program, allowing us to keep offering readers access to our incisive coverage of local news, food and culture with no paywalls.
Make a one-time donation today for as little as $1.

Vic covers the comedy scene, in Houston and beyond. When not writing articles, he's working on his scripts, editing a podcast, doing some funny make-em-ups or preaching the good word of supporting education in the arts.
CONTACT: Vic Shuttee
TRENDING ARTS & CULTURE
Right or Left, What the Constitution Means to Me at Main Street Speaks to You
Sweeney Todd at TUTS Shines With Inspired Direction and Choreography
Intelligence at HGO Buoyed By Wonderous Voices

DON'T MISS OUT
SIGN UP for the latest arts & culture news, free stuff and more!
JOIN TODAY
EDITORIAL
Homepage
News
Food & Drink
Arts & Culture
Music
MARKETING
Promotions Newsletter
MORE
About Us
Staff
Houston Press Careers
Local Advertising
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
BACK TO TOP
California Privacy Policy
California Collection Notice
Do Not Sell My Info
 
 
 
Use of this website constitutes acceptance of our terms of use, our cookies policy, and our privacy policy The Houston Press may earn a portion of sales from products & services purchased through links on our site from our affiliate partners. ©2023 Houston Press, LP. All rights reserved.
Powered By Foundation

