FLICKERING MYTH

GEEK CULTURE | MOVIES, TV, COMIC BOOKS & VIDEO GAMES

Preacher Season 4 Episode 1 Review – ‘Masada’
JULY 26, 2019 BY MARTIN CARR

Martin Carr reviews the first episode of Preacher season 4….



That swagger and arrogant confidence which comes with a certain level of certainty is back. As Rogen, Goldberg and Catlin turn the screw one more time we are welcomed back into a world of penile torture, incarcerated angels and helmet headed dictators. Couple that with a break out from an impregnable fortress, some girl on girl hand to hand action and smatterings of red band banter to make this opener pure Preacher.

Whether the idea of consciously decapitated corpses is for you or not there is a flagrant disregard for scruples which makes Preacher that essential breathe of fresh air we all need. That this show circumvents any restrictions by constantly redefining the line is worthy of note. Defined by an imagination which goes from puerile adolescent humour through to wincingly present torture, it confidently negotiates the tonal line through using sarcasm and gallows humour. That a majority of this episode feels like a cross between Life of Brian and The Raid without directly referencing either is commendable.



This ensemble cast ground the action through believable character beats which somehow temper those sacrilegious elements, which might have some turning up with flaming torches. By expanding on the Grail backstory, opening up potential avenues whilst giving Starr and Featherstone more screen time things feel more rounded. Mushroom cloud laying dream sequences, cloak and dagger moments between claret soaked fight scenes and pathos laden segues tie into emotional reactions tying everything together.

Outside of the central action other bit part players wait it out. With a five o’clock shadow, full length trench coat and hell at his command the Saint of Killers journeys on with company. That an embodiment of preordained destiny should be travelling with a companion such as this is nothing short of intriguing. Religious institutions, sacred doctrines and cults defined by a singular figurehead are all under fire here for those brave enough to look.



Played straight, played with commitment and eliciting no fear, Preacher remains the trailblazer kicking open those doors for others to storm in. Uncompromising, well informed and arguing the point from a highly literate position this final season has already started lighting fires. This opener offers up brave choices, inflammatory images and inferences guaranteed to offend the unprepared. For everyone else this feels like a homecoming with one hard R rating.

Martin Carr

FILED UNDER: MARTIN CARR, REVIEWS, TELEVISION
TAGGED WITH: PREACHER

YOU MIGHT ALSO LIKE:

The Most Terrifying V/H/S Segments Ranked

Mystic River at 20: Revisiting Clint Eastwood’s bleak neo-noir crime drama

Perfect Non-Horror Movies for Halloween Viewing

20 Years Back: The Films of 2003

Underappreciated Action Stars Who Deserve More Love

1983 vs 1993 in Horror Movies: What Year Scared Us More?

Noirvember: The Straight-to-Video Selection

The Best & Worst Marvel Movies from the 20th Century Fox Era

The Essential Films of John Woo

Kill Bill: Vol. 1 – The Quentin Tarantino Classic at 20
TOP STORIES:

Movie Review – Manodrome (2023)

Movie Review – The Killer (2023)

James Wan says Aquaman and the Lost Kingdom will be so good you’ll ignore the backlash

Movie Review – Werewolf Santa (2023)

20 Years of Eli Roth: Ranking the Films of the Horror Icon
Pop Culture
Movies
Television
Comic Books
Video Games
Toys & Collectibles
Features
News
Reviews
Articles and Opinions
Interviews
Exclusives
FMTV
Socials
YouTube
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Flipboard
About
About Flickering Myth
Write for Flickering Myth
Advertise on Flickering Myth
Terms
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
© Collinson Media Limited. All rights reserved. The reproduction, modification, distribution, or republication of the content without permission is strictly prohibited. Movie titles, images, etc. are registered trademarks / copyright their respective rights holders. Read our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. If you can read this, you don't need glasses.


 

Logo
Would you like to receive notifications on latest updates?
by WebpushrYESNOT YET