Skip to Content
Search
Mama's Geeky

Amazon Prime’s Invincible Episode 7 “We Need To Talk” Review
By: AuthorTessa Smith

Posted onLast updated: April 23, 2021

Invincible episode 7 is the most surprising and action packed episode yet – full of twists, turns, and a whole lot of blood.

amazon prime video invincible poster

Episode 6 of Amazon Prime Video’s Invincible did a lot of story building, but was lacking in action compared to other episodes. Episode 7 of Invincible does not have that same problem. It is pretty much action packed from start to finish, and whenever there isn’t a fight going on, there is a really important conversation happening. Making this not only one of the best episodes of season one so far, it is also one of the most important.

   Marvel: Universe Of Super Heroes Exhibit
If you are a fan of the comic books, then you have just been waiting for the other shoe to drop, and while it isn’t there yet, it is certainly on its way. This episode has enough blood, gore, and action to keep fans of that happy, but it also drives the story forward and pushes a lot of character arcs toward their end point. 

invincible

Pretty much this entire episode feels like a spoiler, making it nearly impossible to give a detailed review. What I will say is that this episode is fantastic from beginning to end. There is not one slow moment, not one unimportant conversation, and not one one complaint about it.

As a massive fan of the comics, and one that thinks this show is even better by the way, there is nothing I negative I can say about this episode. It had me on the edge of my seat from start to finish, and I cannot wait to see how the first season, of hopefully many, wraps up in the finale next week. Although, I do have some pretty good guesses.

amazon prime invincible

About Invincible
Mark Grayson, 17, is just like every other guy his age — except that his father is the most powerful superhero on the planet, Omni-Man; as Mark develops powers of his own, he discovers his father’s legacy may not be as heroic as it seems.

Invincible Episode  7 – We Need To Talk
Feeling lost and confused, Mark looks for advice from Eve. At the same time, everyone’s looking for him.

Watch Invincible on Amazon Prime Video!



You Might Also Enjoy...
Full List Of New Original Netflix Movies Coming In 2021
Full List Of New Original Netflix Movies Coming In 2021
New Aladdin Official Trailer REACTION: They More Than Made Up For The Last One!
New Aladdin Official Trailer REACTION: They More Than Made Up For The Last One!
What We Learned about Star Wars Episode IX at the Star Wars Celebration Panel
What We Learned about Star Wars Episode IX at the Star Wars Celebration Panel
She-Hulk: Attorney At Law Review
She-Hulk: Attorney At Law Review
tessa smith
Tessa Smith
Tessa Smith is a Rotten Tomatoes Tomatometer-approved Film and TV Critic. She is also a Freelance Writer. Tessa has been in the Entertainment writing business for almost ten years and is a member of several Critics Associations including the Critics Choice Association, Hollywood Critics Association, and the Greater Western New York Film Critics Association.

mamasgeeky.com/

Around The Web

The Secret Taco Bell Menu Item That Honestly Changes Everything

The Pizza Chain That You Should Never Order From

You Might Be Making A Huge Mistake When Cooking A Grilled Cheese

Stop Wasting Money On Sushi Takeout When You Can Make It At Home

Cook Your Ramen With This Canned Soup & You Will Never Look Back

Eat Peanut Butter Every Day & This Is What Will Happen To You
Avatar
By AuthorTessa Smith
Posted onLast updated: April 23, 2021

CategoriesTelevision

Post navigation

Mortal Kombat Is Not Quite A Flawless Victory – But It Is Close


The Falcon and the Winter Soldier Episode 6 (Finale) Review

Looking For Something?
Search for:
Enter search keywords
Copyright © 2023 Mama's Geeky

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok